[WIP] Dapr docs for .NET SDK (#5)
dapr-sandbox/components-dotnet-sdk: daprdocs/content/en/dotnet-sdk-docs/dotnet-pub-sub/_index.md

---
type: docs

> title: "Implementing a .NET pub-sub component"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Implementing a .NET pub/sub component"
```

> linkTitle: "Pub-Sub"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Pub/sub"
```

weight: 1000

> description: How to create a pub-sub with the Dapr Pluggable Components .NET SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to create a pub/sub with the Dapr pluggable components .NET SDK
```

no_list: true
is_preview: true
---

> Creating a pub-sub component requires just a few basic steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a pub/sub component requires just a few basic steps.
```

> ## Add Pub-Sub Namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add pub/sub namespaces
```

> Add `using` statements for the pub-sub related namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add `using` statements for the pub/sub related namespaces.
```

```csharp
using Dapr.PluggableComponents.Components;
using Dapr.PluggableComponents.Components.PubSub;
```

## Implement `IPubSub`

Create a class that implements the `IPubSub` interface.

```csharp
internal sealed class MyPubSub : IPubSub
{
    public Task InitAsync(MetadataRequest request, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Called to initialize the component with its configured metadata...
    }

    public Task PublishAsync(PubSubPublishRequest request, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Send the message to the "topic"...
    }

    public Task PullMessagesAsync(PubSubPullMessagesTopic topic, MessageDeliveryHandler<string?, PubSubPullMessagesResponse> deliveryHandler, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Until canceled, check the topic for messages and deliver them to the Dapr runtime...
    }
}
```

> Calls to the `PullMessagesAsync()` method are "long-lived" in that the method is not expected to return until canceled (i.e. via the `cancellationToken`). The "topic" from which messages should be pulled is passed via the `topic` argument, while the delivery to the Dapr runtime performed via the `deliveryHandler` callback. Delivery allows the component to receive notification if/when the application (served by the Dapr runtime) acknowledges processing of the  message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calls to the `PullMessagesAsync()` method are "long-lived", in that the method is not expected to return until canceled (for example, via the `cancellationToken`). The "topic" from which messages should be pulled is passed via the `topic` argument, while the delivery to the Dapr runtime is performed via the `deliveryHandler` callback. Delivery allows the component to receive notification if/when the application (served by the Dapr runtime) acknowledges processing of the  message.
```

        // Poll the topic until canceled...
        while (!cancellationToken.IsCancellationRequested)
        {
            var messages = // Poll topic for messages...

            foreach (var message in messages)
            {
                // Deliver the message to the Dapr runtime...
                await deliveryHandler(
                    new PubSubPullMessagesResponse(topicName)
                    {
                        // Set the message content...
                    },
                    // Callback invoked when application acknowledges the message...
                    async errorMessage =>
                    {
                        // An empty message indicates the application successfully processed the message...
                        if (String.IsNullOrEmpty(errorMessage))
                        {
                            // Delete the message from the topic...
                        }
                    })
            }

            // Wait for the next poll (or cancellation)...
            await Task.Delay(pollInterval, cancellationToken);
        }
    }
```

> ## Register Pub-Sub Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Register pub/sub component
```

> In the main program file (e.g. `Program.cs`), register the pub-sub component with an application service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the main program file (for example, `Program.cs`), register the pub/sub component with an application service.
```

```csharp
using Dapr.PluggableComponents;

var app = DaprPluggableComponentsApplication.Create();

app.RegisterService(
    "<socket name>",
    serviceBuilder =>
    {
        serviceBuilder.RegisterPubSub<MyPubSub>();
    });

app.Run();

> ```

Reviewer: Add to bottom of page:

```
## Next steps
Learn how to implement a different component with the pluggable component SDK:
   - [Input/output bindings]({{< ref dotnet-bindings >}})
   - [State store]({{< ref dotnet-state-store >}})
```
